Speaking of sort of challenges and hard things.
Is there a possible world where sitting in a room with Mark
Zuckerberg with a $1 billion deal, you turn it down.
Yeah, of course. What does that world look like? Why would you turn it down?
Why did you take it? What was the calculation that you were make.
Uh, that centers, the world of counterfactuals and not really knowing,
and if only we could run that experiment. Well, the.
Universe exists. It's just running in parallel to our own. Yeah.
It's so fascinating. Right. Um, I mean, we're talking a lot about money,
but the real question was, um,
I'm not sure you'll believe me when I say this,
but could we strap our little company onto the side of a rocket ship
and like get out to a lot of people really, really quickly with the support,
with the, the talent of a place like Facebook. I mean,
people often ask me what I would do differently, um,
at Instagram today and at say, well,
I'd probably hire more carefully cuz we showed up just like before I knew it,
we had like a hundred people on the team and 200 then 300,
I don't know where all these people were coming from.
I never had to recruit them. I never had to screen them.
They were just like internal transfers. Right.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> so it's like relying on the Facebook hiring machine,
which is quite sort of a, I mean it's an elaborate machine. It's, it's.
Great. By the way, they have really talented people there. But my point is,
um, the choice was like, take this thing,
put it on the side of a rocket ship that you know is growing very quickly.
Like I had seen what had happened when E sold blogger to Google and then Google
went public. Remember we sold before Facebook went public.
There was a moment at which the stock price was $17, by the way,
Facebook stock price was $17. And I remember thinking, what the did I just do?
Right. Mm-hmm <affirmative> uh, now at 320 ish,
I don't know where we are today, but like, okay.
Like the best thing by the way is like when the stock is
down, everyone calls you a dope and then when it's up,
they also call you a dope. But just for a different reason, <laugh> right.
Like you.
Can't win lesson in there somewhere. Yeah. So, but you know,
the choice is to strip yourself to a rocket ship or to build your own, you know,
Mr. Elon built his own, literally with the rocket ship.
That's a difficult choice because, um, there's.
A world actually. I would say something different,
which is Elon and others decided to sell PayPal for not
that much. I mean, how much was it about a billion dollars?
I can't remember something like that. Yeah. I mean it was early in, um,
but it's worth a lot more now.
Then build a new rocket.
Ships. So this is the cool part, right? Yeah.
If you are an entrepreneur and you own a controlling stake in the company,
not only is it really hard to do something else with your life because all of
the, you know,
value is tied up in you as a personality attached to this company. Right.
But if you sell it and you get yourself enough capital and you like have enough
energy, you could do another thing or 10 other things or an Elon's case,
like a bunch of other things. I don't know. Like I lost count at this point. Um,
and it might have seemed silly at the time and sure. Like if you look back, man,
PayPal's worth a lot now. Right. But I don't know. Like,
do you think Elon like cares about like, are we gonna buy Pinterest or not?
Like I just, he is, he created a, a, a,
a massive capital that allowed him to do what he wants to do. And awesome.
That's more freeing than anything because when you are an entrepreneur attached
to a company, you gotta stay at the company for a really long time.
It's really hard to remove yourself, but.
I'm not sure how much you loved PayPal versus SpaceX and Tesla.
I have a sense that you love.
Instagram. Yeah. I loved enough to like work for 60 years beyond the detail,
which.
Is rare, which is very rare you chose.
But can I tell you why? Sure. It's um, please,
there are not a lot of companies that you can be part of where
the popes, like I would like to sign up for your product.
Like I'm not a religious person at all. I'm really not. Um, yeah,
but when you go to the Vatican,
you're like walking among giant columns and you're hitting the music and
everything.
And like the Pope walks in and he wants to press the signup button on your
product. Like it's a moment in life. Okay. Mm-hmm <affirmative> um,
no matter what your persuasion, okay.
The number of doors and experiences that, that opened up was it was incredible.
I mean, the people I got to meet at the places I got to go, um,
I assume maybe like a payments company is slightly different. Right.
But that's why, like, it was so fun.
And plus I truly believed we were building such a great product and I loved,
loved the game. It wasn't about money. It was about the game. Do you.
Do you think you had the gusts to say no?
Is that so here's I often think about this,
like how hard is it for an entrepreneur to say no,
because the peer pressure. So every,
like basically the sea of entrepreneurs in Silicon valley are gonna tell you,
I mean, this is their dream. The, the, the thing you were sitting before was is,
is a dream to walk away from that is really, it seems like nearly impossible
because Instagram could in 10 years be, you know,
you, you could talk about Google,
you could be making self-driving cars and building rockets that go to Mars and
compete with SpaceX. Totally.
And so that's an interesting decision to say, am I willing,
um, to risk it? And, and the reason I also say it's an interesting decision,
because it feels like per our previous discussion, if you're launching a social,
uh, social network company, there's, there's going to be that meeting,
whatever that number is. If you're successful, if,
if you're on this rocket ship of success,
there's going to be a meeting with one of the social media, uh,
social network companies that, that wanna buy you, uh,
whether it's Facebook or Twitter,
but it could also very well be Google who seems, have,
have like a graveyard of failed social networks. And it's,
I mean, I don't know. I,
I think about that how difficult it is for an entrepreneur to make that
decision. How many have successfully made that decision,
I guess is a big question. It's sad to me, to be honest,
that too many make that decision perhaps for the wrong reason to, to, uh, so.
When you say make the decision, you mean to the affirmative, to the affirmative.
Yeah. Got it. Yeah. There are also companies that don't sell. Right.
And take the path and say we're gonna be independent.
And then you've never heard of, again, like I, I remember, uh,
path right. Was one of our competitors early <affirmative>, uh,
there's a big moment when they had, I can't remember what it was.
It was like 110 million offer from Google or something.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> it might have been larger. I don't know. Um,
and I remember there was like this big tech crunch article that was like,
they turned it down after talking deeply about their values and everything. And
I don't, I don't know the inner workings of Foursquare, but like, I'm certain,
there were many conversations over time where there were companies that wanted
Foursquare as well. Um, recently, like, I mean,
what other companies there's clubhouse, right. Like, I don't know.
Maybe people were really interested in them too.
Like there are plenty of moments where people say
no, and we just forget that those things happen.
We only focus on the ones where like, uh, uh, they said yes,
and like, wow, like what if they had stayed independent? So I don't know.
I like, I used to think a lot about this now. I just don't because I'm like,
whatever, I <laugh>, you know, like things have gone pretty. Yeah. It's,
I'm ready for the next game. I mean, think about, um,
an athlete where I don't know, maybe they, they,
they do something wrong in the world series or whatever. And like,
if you let it haunt you for the rest of your career, like, why not just be like,
I don't know it was a game next game, next shot. Right. And if,
if you just move to that world, like at least I have an ex shot. Right?
No, that that's, that's beautiful, but I mean, just in insights, uh,
and it's funny you brought up clubhouse. It, it is very true.
It seems like clubhouse is, um, you know,
on the downward path and it's very possible to see a billion plus dollar
deal at some stage, maybe like a year ago or half a year ago from Facebook,
from Google. I think Facebook was flirting with that idea too. And <laugh>,
and I think a lot of companies probably were, I wish it was more public.
You know what?
There's not like a badass public story about them making the decision to
walk away. We just don't hear about it. And then we get to see the,
the results of that success or the failure more often failure.
Uh, so a couple things. One is, oh,
not assume clubhouse is down for the count at all. They're young.
They have plenty of money. They're run by really smart people. Mm-hmm,
<affirmative>, I'd give them a, like a very fighting chance to figure it out.
There are a lot of times when people called Twitter down for the count and they
figure it out and they seem to be doing well. Right. Yeah. Um,
so just backing up, like, and not knowing anything about their internals,
like there's a strong chance.
They will figure it out and that people are just down.
Cause they like being down about companies. They like assuming are gonna fail.
So who knows? Right. But let's take the ones in the past where like,
we know how it played out.
There are plenty of examples where people have turned down big offers and then
you've just never heard from them again.
But we never focus on the companies cuz you just forget that those were big,
but inside your psyche, I think they're, um,
it, it's easy for someone with enough money to say money doesn't matter,
which I think is, is like it's. Of course money matters to people. Um,
but at the moment you just can't even grasp like the number of zeros that you're
talking about. It just doesn't make sense. Right.
So to think rationally in that moment is not something many people are up to do,
especially not people where I think we had founded the company a year earlier,
maybe two years earlier, like a year and a half. We were 13 people. But,
um, I will say, I still don't know if it was the right decision.
Cause I don't have that counterfactual. I don't know that other world. Yeah.
I'm just thankful that by and most people love Instagram still do
by and large people are very happy with like the time we had there. Um,
and I'm proud of what we built. So like I'm cool. Like we're, you know, now,
now it's it's next shot. Right?